>> Richard Feldman: So this is the edge
case that I ended up realizing that I had.
When you render a follow button,
there's actually three possible states.
One is I'm following this person,
another is I'm not following this person,
and a third is it's me.
I should never render a follow button for
myself, if I'm viewing my own profile,
if I have a follow button there, that's a
mistake, that just doesn't make any sense.
So I asked myself the question is it
possible to rule that out a compile
attempt to make it actually impossible
to render a follow button for myself.
It turns out,
yes it's possible and here's how.
So let's say we have
a type called author and
author is a non opaque
type with three variants.
So it's got Isfollowing,
which means I am following this author,
it's got Isnotfollowing, means I'm not
following this author, and Isviewer.
Viewer is the term I've used here to
refer to currently logged in user,
it's because it's one word
instead of three and essentially,
this is the one that says it's me.
Now notice that each of these has
different types that of data that they
are storing along with the variant.
So Isfollowing stores
FollowedAuthor is an opaque type.
It holds on to user name and profile,
those are the two pieces of information
we have about every author.
So FollowedAuthor has one variant
which is also called FollowedAuthor.
This is a pretty common pattern if you
have a single variant to just give
the variant the same
name as the type itself.
So it's a little bit confusing
the first time you see it.
But over time you realize that well
it isn't really a better name for
this thing if there is only one variant.
So people end up typically using the same
name as the type of one variant when
you're doing that.
So we have FollowedAuthor which
has using your profile and
UnfollowedAuthor which
has a username profile.
Now if I go up and
stop here we can see that sure enough I am
in fact exposing the variance for author.
We'll talk about why momentarily, but
not for FollowedAuthor, and not for
UnfollowedAuthor.
So the only way that I can actually
get one of these FollowedAuthors or
UnfollowedAuthors, is by using
functions like the ones down here.
I can do things like follow someone,
which takes me from
UnfollowedAuthor to FollowedAuthor.
I can unfollow someone, which takes me
from FollowedAuthor to UnfollowedAuthor.
I can request a follow which is to say,
go tell the server I want to follow this
person or I want to unfollow this person.
And in either case I'm always being very
explicit about whether I am currently
following or not that person.
Another thing to note is that this is
a nice handy trick when you have a single
variant custom type is you can
actually destructure it in line.
So this is effectively the same
thing as if I had instead said
name this unfollowedAuthor,
and I'd said down here,
case unfollowedAuthor of, and
then I just had the one case down in here.
So instead of doing that, it's a lot
more concise to just do it in line.
And that allows you to do that, because
it's essentially an in-line pattern match,
where there's only one pattern.
And since, with a single variant custom
type, there's only one possible pattern,
the compiler accepts this and,
knows what to do with it.
Okay, so now that I've got my
FollowedAuthor and UnfollowedAuthor,
which are opaqu.
How do I actually obtain
one from the get go?
Well if you notice, we can request
to follow and unfollow people.
But the only way we can actually
get an author in the first place,
is to get one from one
of these Http.Request.
Like I can do an Http.Request that
will give me an author, author back.
But once I have one,
all I can do is destructure it into
one of these three possibilities.
Either I'm following them, in which case I
get a FollowedAuthor, I'm not following,
in which case I get an UnfollowedAuthor,
or it's me and I get sort of myself back.
Now, the fact that this is not
opaque doesn't really harm me in
this cause because how could I possibly
construct one of these authors?
Well, there are three variants here,
one of them is, contains an opaque type.
So I need to already have a followedAuthor
in order to construct one of those.
The other one is also opaque so
I need an UnfollowedAuthor to be
able to construct one of those.
And the final one is me which means I can
construct an author that is me if I am me,
which okay, fine, I can do that.
But I narrowly getting a new information
there not only breaking any in variance,
I am able to just say this is an author
that is myself which is information that I
already had.
So the fact that we are exposing
these variance isnt really costing us
any guarantees,
it has kept the same set of guarantees
that if we did not expose those variance.
But we're exposing them does
turns out to be pretty cool.
>> Richard Feldman: So
let's take a look at the profile page.
So here's what goes on
on the profile page.
I want to render a follow-unfollow button.
I do a case expression on my author and
I've got these three branches.
One is it's me and say, well,
we can't follow ourselves.
So here I rendered nothing.
If I am following this person,
then I render an unfollow button and
if I am not following this person,
then I render a follow button.
Now, what's cool about this is that,
I can't actually write this code
without writing the case expression.
I can't call unfollow button without
having a FollowedAuthor, and
I can't call follow button without
having an UnfollowedAuthor.
Because each of those.
>> Richard Feldman: Requires
passing the other one.
Follow button requires
taking an UnfollowedAuthor,
unfollow button requires
taking a FollowedAuthor.
And the only way that I can obtain one
of those if I've got an article is to
actually enumerate all
three of these cases.
I have to write a case expression,
I have to handle all three types.
So because of the way we set up
the variants and which of these types
are opaque, it ends up being the case
that the only way to render a follow and
unfollow button.
Is to render a follow button for
someone I'm not following,
to render an unfollow button for
someone that I am following,
and I can't render either
of them if it's me.
So it successfully turn this
edge case from something where I
have to remember to do it all the time.
Or I have to document to do it and
hope that the present joins
the company 12 months from now and
it's the first week on the job and
it's going to render to follow.
But they remember that into something
where you kinda can't mess it up, or at
least you can't mess up the part where you
need to know how to handle it properly.
This isn't to say that you
can't make other mistakes,
I could still render something
incomprehensible here or
I could choose not to render
an unfollow button here.
But at the very least the edge case of
forgetting to handle this is no longer
really possible to ignore.
Questions on that?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So to that point about,
kinda like sharing knowledge,
when you get a code review.
If you see somebody expose something new,
would that, like, be a red flag, like,
maybe they didn't get it and they kind
of dove into that opening type and.
>> Richard Feldman: For sure, yeah.
[LAUGH] So, like, if somebody makes
a pull request and they do this.
Yeah, that's usually a red flag.
If you're going from unexposed
constructors to exposed constructors,
probably, there should be a name change
going along with that, because it probably
means you're doing something fundamentally
different than what you were doing before.
Yeah, I would definitely
consider that a pre.
It's essentially the equivalent of,
if you're working in Ruby or Java, and
someone takes all the stuff that was
in private and just moves it to public.
It's like, wait, wait, wait.
[LAUGH] Why are we doing this?
This seems like a bad idea.
>> Speaker 3: In the case statement
you are returning html and
then just returning an empty text,
[INAUDIBLE] it looks like.
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, that's pretty common.
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah, that's, so,
another way you can do it, this is a short
hand I like to use for essentially saying
I don't wanna return any virtual download
because an empty text node is essentially
Invisible in the DOM to the end user.
Another way you can do it is you
could have this return a maybe, or
you could have it return a list of HTML,
and
then concatenate them on other things and
return empty lists there.
But often enough I just tend to go with
this, any of those three ways work.
We're done with to the code,
all right, so let's review.
We started off by talking about module
boundaries, the idea of being able to
selectively expose our variants such that
we don't expose everything by default but
rather we choose to only expose
variance when it sort of makes sense.
We talked about the idea of opaque type,
which is to say types where
the implementation, details are hidden.
The variance are not exposed or maybe it's
not even a custom type under the hood at
all, in the case of some of the things
that are built in to the core library.
We talked about the idea of validated
data, we talked about the email type,
where we could guarantee that the email
had at least been validated if you were to
obtain one of those values.
Then we showed how to do that with a
wrapper called valid, which the other way
to obtain one of those was to run
it through a validation function.
And it would guarantee that
whatever type you had,
had been run through
a validator of some sort.
And finally we talked about
when not to go Opaque,
we saw the example of the author
where we had three variance.
Which was totally fine to expose based on
the way that we were ending up using it,
it wasn't actually breaking
any guarantees and
it did require that the end user needed
to handle all three of those cases.
And in fact there,
the fact that you had the full pattern
matching abilities without losing any
guarantees turned out to be beneficial.